This video provides a high level
overview of CrateDB.
You'll see what we mean by a
multi-model database, how multi-
model data can be queried with
SQL, and we'll look at
flexible data schemas and high
level architecture.
What is CrateDB?
CrateDB is a hyper-fast open
source multi-model database
combining the simplicity of
SQL and flexible schemas with
the scalability of a distributed
architecture.
CrateDB is a multi-model
database.
Its strength lies in the
efficient handling of multiple
data models within the same
database and even within the
same record in a table.
This allows you to use one
database for all structured,
semi-structured and unstructured
data.
For example, tabular data, JSON
or documents, time series,
vectors, geospatial, full text
and binary objects.
You can create hybrid data
models comprised of structured
and semi-structured data all in
one place.
CrateDB eliminates the need to
manage and synchronise multiple
database technologies and learn
different languages by offering
unified access via the well
known SQL language.
All data models are accessible
via SQL, allowing for complex
queries, full text and vector
search.
Additionally, CrateDB
implements the PostgreSQL wire
protocol, ensuring compatibility
with the wide ecosystem of
tools, libraries and drivers.
Here's an example SQL query
that demonstrates the multi-
model power of CrateDB.
Many U.S.
cities have a citizens hotline
for reporting issues such as
potholes in the road, street
lights that don't work, and
other issues.
New issues are usually reported
by calling 311.
As part of our data set, we have
records for 311 calls made in
the city of Chicago.
In this SELECT query, we're
asking CrateDB to tell us the
four most common types of 311
call reported in an area around
Chicago's O'Hare Airport.
Here, locationdetails is a
column of type object containing
JSON data.
Within that JSON data, the
field location contains the
latitude and longitude for the
area that the issue was reported
in.
We're asking CrateDB to
consider only calls whose
location falls within the
provided Geo polygon representing
the area around O'Hare Airport,
and we want to get a count of
each different type of call made
from that area, returning only
the four top call types.
Most common call type by far is
to report noise from passing
aircraft.
This is perhaps not surprising
for an area near one of the
world's busiest airports.
JSON data can be stored in an
object field in a table in CrateDB.
Object fields created with the
default DYNAMIC policy are used
to store arbitrary JSON.
Here, we're storing a JSON
object in the locationdetails
field of our 311 calls table.
This object can contain any
structure.
In this example, we have an
object containing a nested
object and a couple of arrays.
To ensure the best query
performance, CrateDB indexes
these objects automatically for
us.
CrateDB can also allow for
flexibility in table schemas.
Let's create a table to store
details of Chicago's taxi
drivers.
Here I want to store the name
and licence number as text, as
the licence number may contain
alphanumerics, and I want a
boolean field for whether or not
the driver is a first aider.
Note that I'm telling CrateDB
to use a dynamic column policy
here.
This tells CrateDB that we
might add or update data in ways
that can change the table
schema.
As a side effect, this allows us
to easily evolve our schema as
our data changes over time.
Let's insert a record with
values corresponding to the
columns we specified when
creating the table.
I've inserted a record for
myself with licence number ABC956 and
a true flag for being a first
aider.
Inserting this second driver,
we've referenced an additional
column penaltypoints.
This insert succeeds as we've
defined the drivers table to
have a dynamic column policy.
Here we've asked CrateDB to
show us the CREATE TABLE
statement for the Taxi drivers
table.
Note that the table now has an
extra column penaltypoints.
CrateDB has inferred the type
BIGINT for this column based on
the data provided when our
second driver was inserted.
Records added before the table
schema was changed will have a
null value for the penaltypoints
column.
If you know your data schema,
CrateDB's Strict option for
objects and tables enables the
database to enforce it for you.
In this version of the 311
table, objects must match the
declared structure to be
inserted.
Similarly, our table schema can
be enforced using the STRICT
column policy when creating the
table.
Finally, let's talk about CrateDB's
architecture.
CrateDB is a distributed
database with a shared nothing
architecture.
Data is stored on multiple nodes
and automatically balanced
across nodes in a cluster.
It scales horizontally and
provides high availability with
self-healing characteristics.
CrateDB's distributed SQL
engine enables queries,
aggregations, joins and full
text searches with the power of
Lucene to be performed
efficiently at speed.
CrateDB can be deployed in the
cloud, at the edge, on premise
or as a hybrid deployment.